quickly focus through this chain justice
James Olsen detail this is your number
to stage guitars that lottery number one
stencil this is a it's called number two
it's the second one he'd built for me
the first one was in a hotel room in
Minneapolis when I showed up to do
benefits he had gotten the guitar into
my room and it was lying on the bed and
I picked it up and played it and knew I
had a I found a great new guitar it's
slightly wider here than normal then our
normal sixth string would be so it's
that fits my hand better this cedar top
rosewood it's it's a really it rings
it's a very bright sound but it's it's
balanced balanced across the guitar you
know it's got a good
[Music]
you can get a good bass note out of it I
tend to play it the action is low the
action is low and I like it low
just on the clean side of buzzy
can you use some of two fingers as you
mentioned and you kind of use a bit of
nail in the flesh the nail is mostly
just to stop it - to mute things so it's
it's the nail that you know that that
yeah it's definitely the nail that makes
the sound and again they're these Bionic
nails I build my they they would never
last for a week on the road if it were
my own nail so I been doing this for 40
years I think anyway interesting I've
said this to you before when you play
when you play your chord changes because
you're playing bass notes usually before
the internal of the chord and any licks
on the top you your fingers tend to
creep across the neck and around the
neck because you're leading with the
first finger the next chord can you
place a few changes to just show just do
it naturally and you've what we do will
happen
[Music]
it is there it's they're independent
they there there are sort of lines that
are happening all around each other
rather than you know all all at once
it's it's very different from from a
strumming technique that's a very
typical James Taylor chord
[Music]
plus two cord or a knife but low down
[Applause]
[Music]
Oh
another thing that that opened things up
from me was this
[Music]
so there's a so laughing thing
I bury seldom capable any higher than
the third fret it's it's so that playing
in E in D and an a I can go up to
playing in F in G or in C you know it
allows me I've very seldom play an open
sea
it's just an interesting chord on the
guitar to me I much left
or much prefer these
[Music]
I'm much like that much prefer that D a
and an e fingering and it it just pulls
it into a different range for the voice
so that you can do a different thing
melodically with it
you know I'm a baritone which is not
great I think the best thing to be is a
tenor
you know like Jimmy nails or sting a
Graham Nash Ricky Skaggs you know have
that really high range because then
you're playing the guitar mucus huge
thing up above it so it it feels like a
much wider range of up available you
know stuff available to you I wish I had
a higher range than I do
so perhaps you compensate by making a
guitar the higher thing so you get those
I'm constantly working on finding a way
to make the guitar lower basically I'm I
I do play bass with my thumb my bass
player Jimmie Johnson and Lise klar
would both tell you that the challenge
is working with someone who's already
playing bass and I I actually wish my
guitar did have bass notes in it I've
been trying to come up with a sort of
what do you call them very guitar or
like that line six guitar or the the
Roland guitar synth you can you can get
them so that they'll drop these strings
down an octave the problem is that you
only want one string at a time to be
down the octave as you don't want courts
and those lower registers it's too muddy
so I'm trying to figure out a way to
switch that machine automatically to to
just play whatever my lowest note on the
lower three strings are and someday I'll
I'll do it - I'm close now
[Music]
you